hello and welcome to the a beam re-bake
lab my name's Scott Weis here in the
baked lab we work to provide solutions
to bakeries across North America today
let's talk about yeast we're gonna be
going over fresh yeast instant dry yeast
and active dry yeast bakers compressed
yeast requires refrigerated storage to
preserve its strength upon arrival at
the bakery you should be immediately
placed in refrigerator and held at its
ideal temperature between 35 and 45
degrees Fahrenheit proper air
circulation between spaced cartons is
important to maintain the baking
strength of the East when stored
properly yeast will maintain this
activity for at least three weeks you
should be kept cold and in its package
until it's ready to be used do not
remove the wrapper until just before the
yeast is about to be used to prevent air
burn which causes dark corners and edges
to maximize performance only remove as
much yeast from the refrigerator as you
will use in the next 30 minutes instant
yeast does not require refrigeration to
maintain yeast activity instant yeast is
vacuum packaged and is hard until the
seal is broken at which point the yeast
becomes free-flowing store in a cool dry
area for maximum shelf life storage
temperatures should be less than 70
degrees Fahrenheit open packages should
be rolled down tightly and stored under
refrigeration to minimize moisture
pickup which may result in activity loss
add directly to the flour and dry mix
for 30 to 60 seconds prior to adding the
liquids use approximately 1 pound of
instant yeast for every 3 pounds of
fresh yeast normally dough prepared with
instant yeast requires 2 pounds of
additional water for each one pound of
instant yeast warmer final dough
temperatures are recommended when using
instant yeast to obtain fermentation
results similar to fresh yeast the
difference between instant yeast and
active dry yeast
is that active dry yeast needs to be
hydrated before addition to the dough
active dry yeast should be allowed to
temper to room temperature prior to
rehydration for best results
rehydrate the yeast for five to ten
minutes with at least four times its
weight in warm water approximately a
hundred and five degrees Fahrenheit the
water temperature should never be lower
than ninety degrees Fahrenheit and never
higher than a hundred and ten degrees
once the yeast has been hydrated it can
be used similarly to fresh compressed
yeast it's important to remember to
subtract the amount of water used for
hydration from the formula when
converting fresh compressed yeast to
active dry yeast an additional one or
two pounds of water should be used for
each pound of active dry yeast mix time
reductions of ten to twenty percent are
commonly found when using active dry
yeast a B Mari is an industry leader in
providing high-quality fresh and dry
yeast for a variety of baked products
our Baker's bests fresh compressed yeast
and instant and active dry yeast can
contribute excellent quality to your
baked goods I hope we have provided
insight into yeast technology for more
information about our Baker's best
product line or for assistance with an
issue at your bakery please contact a
customer service representative today